
<!-- README.md is generated from README.qmd. Please edit that file -->

# The Implementation of China’s Overseas NGO Law and the Operating Space for International Civil Society

[Andrew Heiss](https://www.andrewheiss.com/) • Andrew Young School of
Policy Studies • Georgia State University  
Meng Ye • Andrew Young School of Policy Studies • Georgia State
University

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Abstract

China’s 2017 Overseas NGO (ONGO) Law is part of a larger global trend of
legal restrictions on international NGOs (INGOs). However, the effects
of this global crackdown on INGOs have been difficult to measure since
there is often divergence between the formal de jure regulations and the
de facto implementation of these laws. The enforcement of these laws
also depends on the services provided by these organizations. In
particular, authoritarian regimes display conflicting attitudes towards
claim-making (e.g. advocacy) INGOs versus service-providing
(e.g. humanitarian assistance) INGOs. In this paper, we measure the
effect of China’s ONGO law on INGO operations since 2017. We test how
INGO operational flexibility under the ONGO law is influenced by
organizations’ issue areas. We argue that service provision INGOs have
greater flexibility and are allowed to work in a larger number of
provinces than their claim-making counterparts. China provides an
excellent setting for testing our claim—the 2017 ONGO law regulates both
claim-making and service-providing NGOs, and ambiguity in the law gives
ample room for arbitrary discretion by authorities. We test our argument
using multilevel Bayesian models with administrative data from 635
registered representative offices of INGOs registered in China between
2017–2021. Our results speak to the broader literature on closing civic
space and provide an empirical illustration of the practical effect of
NGO restrictions on global civil society.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## 🤗🦪: “Compassionate clam” project name

Because project titles change all the time with revisions, rewriting,
and peer review, we used [**codename**](http://svmiller.com/codename/)
to generate an
[Ubuntu-style](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DevelopmentCodeNames)
internal-to-us project name that won’t change.

``` r
library(codename)
codename_message()
#> code name generated by {codename} v.0.4.0

codename(seed = "china ongo law", type = "ubuntu")
#> [1] "compassionate clam"
```

## Licenses

**Text and figures:** All prose and images are licensed under Creative
Commons ([CC-BY-4.0](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/))

**Code:** All code is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE.md).

## Contributions

We welcome contributions from everyone. Before you get started, please
see our [contributor guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md). Please note that this
project is released with a [Contributor Code of
Conduct](https://contributor-covenant.org/version/2/1/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.html).
By participating in this project you agree to abide by its terms.
